Bear - Big Game Season | Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation
Skip to main content
Main navigation
Licensing
Licensing
Disability License
Lifetime License Info
License Options/Fees
Licensing System FAQ
Other Permits & Licenses
Purchase License Online
Purchase In Person
Veteran Licensing
Fishing
Fishing
Aquatic Nuisance Species
Black Bass & Tournaments
Boating Access
Close To Home Fishing Program
E-CHECK
Fish Attractor Map
Fisheries Contact
Fishing Guides
Fishing Regulations
Fishing Reports
Fishing Tips
Game Warden Directory
Oklahoma Angler Recognition Program
Pond Management
Sportfish Restoration Program
State Records
The Dock - Upload Your Catch
Where To Fish
Hunting
Hunting
Chronic Wasting Disease (CWD)
Controlled Hunts
Commercial Hunt Area List
Cy Curtis Program
E-CHECK
Game Processors
Game Warden Directory
Hunter Education
Hunting Regulations
Hunting Resources
Hunting Seasons
The Tailgate - Upload Your Harvest
WMA Shooting Ranges
Where To Hunt
Wildlife
Wildlife
Conservation Plates
Field Guide
Nuisance Wildlife
Report Wildlife Sightings
Threatened & Endangered
Wildlife Diversity
Wildlife Encounters
Wildlife Rehabilitators
Watchable Wildlife
What We Do
Education Programs
Game Wardens
Lands & Minerals
Landowner Programs
Maps
Oklahoma Land Access Program
Outdoor Calendar
Outdoor Oklahoma Adventures
Outdoor Oklahoma Journal
Outdoor Oklahoma Magazine
Outdoor Oklahoma TV
Research & Surveys
About Us
About The ODWC
Accountability Initiative
Bids & Solicitations
Careers & Internships
Contact Us
FAQs
Game Warden Directory
Legislative Tracker
Meet The Staff
ODWC Timeline
Buy License
Home
Hunting
Regulations
Bear - Big Game Season
For requirements on hunter orange, legal means of taking, public lands, shooting hours, carcass disposal, more than one method of take in the field, tracking with dogs, field tagging, and checking requirements, see Big Game Regulations .
License Requirements
Hunters must be in possession of all appropriate licenses before hunting bears.
Resident Youth (unless exempt):
Resident: Youth Annual Super Hunting License
Resident (unless exempt):
Resident Annual Hunting License, and
Resident Bear License for that particular season.
Nonresident Youth (unless exempt):
Nonresident Youth 5-day Super Hunting or
Nonresident Youth Annual Super Hunting License
Nonresident (unless exempt):
Nonresident Annual Hunting License, and
Nonresident Bear License for that particular season.
*** The adult nonresident 5-day hunting license is not valid for hunting bears.
License Purchasing Deadlines:
Bear licenses for the archery season must be purchased prior to the first day of archery season. No bear archery licenses will be sold on or after the first day of the archery season.
Bear licenses for the muzzleloader season must be purchased prior to the first day of muzzleloader season. No bear licenses will be sold on or after the first day of muzzleloader season. An unfilled bear archery license is valid for the bear muzzleloader season.
Bear Season Dates & Open Areas
Image
Bear Archery
Oct 1, 2026
- Oct 18, 2026
Only in Choctaw, Haskell, Latimer, Le Flore, McCurtain and Pushmataha counties; and that portion of McIntosh, Muskogee and Sequoyah counties south of Interstate 40; and that portion of Atoka, Bryan, McIntosh and Pittsburg counties east of U.S. Highway 69.
Bear Muzzleloader
Oct 24, 2026
- Nov 1, 2026
Only in Choctaw, Haskell, Latimer, Le Flore, McCurtain and Pushmataha counties; and that portion of McIntosh, Muskogee and Sequoyah counties south of Interstate 40; and that portion of Atoka, Bryan, McIntosh and Pittsburg counties east of U.S. Highway 69.
Bear carcasses may be quartered, with or without skin, but the head and sex organs must remain naturally attached to the skin until the bear is checked by a Department employee.
Combined Season Limit
One : either sex. This includes bear archery and bear muzzleloader seasons.
Prohibited Activities
Baiting on wildlife management areas
Shooting cubs or females with cubs
Shooting a collared bear
Pursuing denned bears
Pursuing bears with dogs
Field Tagging & Checking
Upon harvesting a bear, all hunters must immediately attach their name and customer ID number securely to the carcass.
The attached item can be anything, as long as it contains the required information. This information must remain attached to the carcass until it is checked.
Upon harvesting a bear, all hunters must call Matt Hensley, Wildlife Biologist, at (918) 527-9918 ; or Tres Phipps, Wildlife Technician, at (918) 527-9921 .
The carcass must be checked in by the hunter who harvested the bear. After the carcass is checked, a carcass tag will be issued, which must remain with the carcass to its final destination or through processing and/or storage at commercial processing or storage facilities.
Muzzleloader Bear Quota
As of June 2026 there is no quota for Bear Muzzleloader season.
Hunting Regulations
GENERAL
Regulation Changes
General Hunting Regulations
Hunter Education Info
LICENSE INFO
Residency Definitions
License Requirements
License Exemptions
Specialty Licenses
License Fees
BIG GAME
Big Game Regulations
Deer
Elk
Bear
Antelope
Mountain Lion
GAME BIRDS
General Turkey Regulations
Fall Turkey
Spring Turkey
Quail (Bobwhite & Scaled)
Pheasant Regulations
MIGRATORY BIRDS
Migratory Game Bird Regulations
Dove
Crow, Woodcock, Rail, Snipe, Gallinule
Wetland Development Units
Youth, Veteran & Active Military Waterfowl Hunting Opportunities
Ducks, Mergansers & Coots
September Teal, Geese & Sandhill Cranes
Waterfowl Hunting Blinds
Extended Falconry Seasons
SMALL GAME/FURBEARER
Small Game
Hog (Feral Swine)
Furbearer/Coyote
Reptile & Amphibian
Public Hunting Areas
OLAP Regulations (Hunting)
Department-Managed Area Rules
Public Hunting Areas: Special Regulations
This guide is not a legal document. This guide is an interpretive summary of Title 29 and Title 800 Oklahoma statutes governing fish and wildlife laws as established by the Oklahoma Wildlife Conservation Commission and contains those rules that affect the average hunter or angler. For a complete listing of official regulations, you can obtain copies of current Oklahoma statutes through your local library or online resouces.
Regulation questions?
Contact Us
Recent Journals
Summer Adaptations: Wildlife Are Feeling Hot, Hot, Hot
On top of their everyday survival challenges, Oklahoma’s wildlife are often subjected to grueling hot temperatures and drought conditions. We share our favorite summer adaptations that dragonflies, birds, lizards, snakes, and even squirrels use to deal with scorching conditions.
Aug 20, 2026
Red River Carp Stakeout
Invasive carp, including silver or “jumping” carp, have become an ecological horror story in the United States, consuming river-loads of plankton and other foods and, in some states, outcompeting native fish communities. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is monitoring the Red River downstream of Denison Dam to learn more about adult invasive carp movements and conducting early detection sampling for carp larvae. So far, larval invasive carp have not been documented in this river system.
Aug 20, 2026
Hunter Education: A Key Step to Hunting in Oklahoma
Now is the time to sign up for a free Hunter Education clinic from the Oklahoma Department of Wildlife conservation, and there's sure to be one near you soon.
Aug 19, 2026
Donate today to help support Oklahoma's wildlife.
Quick Links
Careers & Internships
Outdoor Oklahoma
Wildlife Conservation Foundation
Oklahoma Wildlife
The Commission
Legislative Tracker
Submit Outdoor Calendar Events
Hunting & Fishing
Hunting Seasons
Online Hunter Education
Harvest Reports
Fishing Reports
Surveys & Reports
Cervidae (Deer, Elk, Moose, etc.) Import
Hot Topics
Active Prescribed Burns
ODWC Bids & Solicitations
Ag/Hay/Grazing Leases
Accountability Initiative
Wildlife Encounters
Oklahoma Habitat Enhancement Partnership
Opportunity For Public Input
GoOutdoorsOK
Purchase License
(opens in a new tab)
Outdoor Store
(opens in a new tab)
Outdoor Calendar
(opens in a new tab)
Mobile App
Android
(opens in a new tab)
iOS
(opens in a new tab)
Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation on Facebook (opens in a new tab)
Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation on X (opens in a new tab)
Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation on TikTok (opens in a new tab)
Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation on YouTube (opens in a new tab)
Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation on Instagram (opens in a new tab)
Footer menu
Contact Us
FAQs
Disclaimer
Civil Rights Statement
Social Media Policy
Website Accessibility Statement
Copyright ©2026 Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation. All Rights Reserved.