Big Game Regulations | Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation
Skip to main content
Main navigation
Licensing
Licensing
Disability License
Lifetime License Info
License Options/Fees
Licensing System FAQ
Other Permits & Licenses
Purchase License Online
Purchase In Person
Veteran Licensing
Fishing
Fishing
Aquatic Nuisance Species
Black Bass & Tournaments
Boating Access
Close To Home Fishing Program
E-CHECK
Fish Attractor Map
Fisheries Contact
Fishing Guides
Fishing Regulations
Fishing Reports
Fishing Tips
Game Warden Directory
Oklahoma Angler Recognition Program
Pond Management
Sportfish Restoration Program
State Records
The Dock - Upload Your Catch
Where To Fish
Hunting
Hunting
Chronic Wasting Disease (CWD)
Controlled Hunts
Commercial Hunt Area List
Cy Curtis Program
E-CHECK
Game Processors
Game Warden Directory
Hunter Education
Hunting Regulations
Hunting Resources
Hunting Seasons
The Tailgate - Upload Your Harvest
WMA Shooting Ranges
Where To Hunt
Wildlife
Wildlife
Conservation Plates
Field Guide
Nuisance Wildlife
Report Wildlife Sightings
Threatened & Endangered
Wildlife Diversity
Wildlife Encounters
Wildlife Rehabilitators
Watchable Wildlife
What We Do
Education Programs
Game Wardens
Lands & Minerals
Landowner Programs
Maps
Oklahoma Land Access Program
Outdoor Calendar
Outdoor Oklahoma Adventures
Outdoor Oklahoma Journal
Outdoor Oklahoma Magazine
Outdoor Oklahoma TV
Research & Surveys
About Us
About The ODWC
Accountability Initiative
Bids & Solicitations
Careers & Internships
Contact Us
FAQs
Game Warden Directory
Legislative Tracker
Meet The Staff
ODWC Timeline
Buy License
Home
Hunting
Regulations
Big Game Regulations
ATTENTION Cimarron, Texas, Woodward, Major, and Woods County Hunters!
To monitor CWD presence, hunters should read the Selective Surveillance Area (SSA) rules and regulations.
SSA Rules & Regulations
Legal Means Of Taking
Archery
This includes Deer Archery, Elk Archery, Antelope Archery, Turkey Archery & Bear Archery seasons.
Bow : Any compound bow of 30 pounds or more draw weight; any recurve, longbow or self-bow of 40 pounds or more draw weight. Hand-held releases are legal. Devices that permit a bow to be held mechanically at full or partial draw are allowed.
Broadheads : Arrows and/or bolts must be fitted with hunting type points not less than 7/8 inches wide, including mechanical broad- heads meeting this width requirement when fully open.
Crossbows : Minimum of 100 pounds draw weight and equipped with safety devices. Bolts must be a minimum of 14 inches in length. Leverage gaining devices are legal.
Firearms Restrictions : Unless otherwise provided by state law, no person may carry or use any firearm in conjunction with archery equipment during any archery season. Hunters are allowed to carry both archery equipment and a muzzleloader during the muzzleloader season provided they have the appropriate licenses and follow other muzzleloader season regulations. Hunters also are allowed to carry both archery equipment and legal firearms during any modern gun season, again provided they have the appropriate licenses and follow other regulations to participate in those seasons.
Illegal Devices : Laser sights (unless certified 100% disabled or legally blind), thermal tracking devices, and light enhancement devices (including nightscopes) from sunset to sunrise.
Gun
This includes Youth Deer Gun, Deer Gun, Youth Elk Gun, Holiday Antlerless Deer Gun, Elk Gun & Antelope Gun seasons.
Rifles : Centerfire rifles firing at least a 55-grain weight soft-nosed or hollow-point bullet. There is no restriction on magazine capacity regardless of caliber.
Shotguns : Any centerfire shotgun firing a single slug, are legal.
Handguns : Any centerfire handgun firing a single bullet with at least a 55-grain weight.
Archery : Equipment described as legal in the archery section.
Muzzleloaders : Equipment as described as legal in the muzzleloader section.
Arrow rifles: A device that fires an arrow or bolt solely by the use of unignited compressed gas as the propellant. Legal arrow rifles will maintain a minimum of 2000psi and have a visible pressure gauge to prove proper pressure. Legal arrows and bolts for deer shall be a minimum of 18 inches in length with fletching for stability and fitted with a broadhead hunting type point not less than 7/8 inches wide, including mechanical broadheads meeting these dimensions when fully open. Arrow rifles are only to be used during open rifle seasons and are not permitted during archery season. This permit can be found under specialty license at GoOutdoorsOklahoma.com
Suppressors (Silencers) : Hunters are allowed to use legally acquired and possessed suppressors on both private and public lands.
Illegal devices : Fully automatic firearms, laser sights (unless certified 100% disabled or legally blind), thermal tracking devices, and light enhancement devices (including nightscopes) from sunset to sunrise.
Muzzleloader
This includes Deer Muzzleloader, Elk Muzzleloader & Bear Muzzleloader seasons.
Muzzleloading Rifles/Pistols: .40 caliber or larger, firing a single ball/bullet, loaded from the muzzle.
Muzzleloading Shotgun: 20 gauge or larger, firing a single slug, loaded from the muzzle.
Archery : Equipment described as legal in the archery section.
Arrow Rifle: Refer to definition under gun.
Illegal devices : Blackpowder firearms loaded from the breech, laser sights (unless certified 100% disabled or legally blind), thermal tracking devices, and all light enhancement devices (including nightscopes) from sunset to sunrise.
Unless otherwise provided by state law, no person shall carry or use any modern firearm in conjunction with any legal muzzleloading firearm during any muzzleloader season.
Public Lands
Seasons on public lands may vary from statewide seasons. Consult public hunting lands special regulations .
Shooting Hours
One-half hour before official sunrise to one-half hour after official sunset.
Tracking With Dogs
Hunters are allowed the use of a leashed dog to help locate downed game after notifying a game warden (message, email or call) with location and time. No person may have a means of take on their person while tracking with dogs.
More Than One Method of Take in the Field
Hunters are allowed to carry both archery equipment and a muzzleloader during the muzzleloader season provided they have the appropriate licenses and follow other muzzleloader season regulations. Hunters are allowed to carry both archery equipment and legal firearms during any modern gun season, provided they have the appropriate licenses and follow other regulations to participate in those seasons.
Carcass Disposal
No person may dump the carcass of any dead animal in any well, spring, pond, or stream of water or leave it within 1/4 mile of any occupied dwelling or public highway without burying the carcass in an appropriate manner where it is not likely to become exposed through erosion of the soil or where such land is subject to overflow. Anyone transporting deer and/or elk carcasses or parts must abide by the regulations in each state in which they travel through.
Importation of Cervid Carcasses or Carcass Parts
No person shall import, transport, or possess any cervid carcass or part of a cervid carcass from outside the boundaries of Oklahoma. The following items are the only exceptions:
Antlers or antlers attached to clean skull plate or cleaned skulls (all tissue removed);
Animal quarters containing no spinal materials, or meat with all parts of the spinal column removed;
Cleaned teeth;
Finished taxidermy products;
Hides or tanned products;
Harvested deer, elk or other cervidae if they are going to a taxidermist in good standing with the Secretary of State
Field Tagging Requirements
All hunters (including lifetime license holders) who harvest a deer, elk, antelope, turkey or bear must immediately attach a field tag, securely to the carcass, with their name, customer ID number, and date and time of harvest.
A field tag can be any item, so long as the tag contains the required information. This tag must remain with the carcass to its final destination or through processing and/or storage at commercial processing or storage facilities.
Checking Requirements
All deer, elk, antelope, and turkey must be checked within 24 hours of leaving the hunt area prior to processing the carcass. This can be done through the online E-Check system at GoOutdoorsOklahoma.com , the Go Outdoors Oklahoma mobile app, or with an authorized Department employee. Once checked, the animal will be issued a carcass tag or an online confirmation number. This tag or number must remain with the carcass to its final destination or through processing and/or storage at commercial processing or storage facilities. Deer and elk may be checked in quartered, provided the sex organs remain naturally attached and the head accompanies the carcass. Additional requirements apply specifically to turkey and bear and are outlined below.
For turkey (fall or spring), all hunters—including lifetime license holders—must immediately attach a field tag securely to the carcass upon harvest. This tag must include the hunter's name, customer ID number, and the date and time of harvest. The tag can be any item, as long as it contains the required information. This information, along with evidence of sex (one leg with foot or a beard), must remain with the carcass until the turkey is checked in. If a hen is harvested with a beard, the beard must remain intact and not be removed until the turkey has reached its final destination.
For bear, all hunters must immediately attach their name and customer ID number to the carcass. The tag can be made of any material, as long as it clearly displays the required information. This identification must remain attached until the bear has been officially checked. After harvesting, hunters are required to contact a Department representative—Matt Hensley, Wildlife Biologist, at (918) 527-9918 ; Tres Phipps, Wildlife Technician, at (918) 527-9921 ; or Aaron Dossey, Wildlife Technician, at (918) 260-3920 . The carcass must be checked in by the hunter who harvested the bear. Once checked, a carcass tag will be issued, which must remain with the carcass until it reaches its final destination or is processed and/or stored at a commercial processing or storage facility. Bear carcasses may be quartered, with or without the skin, but the head and sex organs must remain naturally attached to the skin until the carcass has been checked by a Department employee.
Hunter Orange
(Daylight Fluorescent orange)
Hunter orange requirements apply to hunters hunting either public or private property.
All hunters participating in any antelope, bear, deer, or elk season using a firearm (muzzleloader or gun) must wear both a head covering and an outer garment above the waistline, both totaling at least 400 square inches of hunter orange that are clearly visible while in the field. Camouflage hunter orange is legal as long as there are at least 400 square inches of hunter orange.
Antelope, bear, deer or elk hunters using archery equipment during any antelope, bear, deer, or elk firearms (muzzleloader or gun) season in any open hunting area (zone, county, or area), this includes public lands closed to the firearm(s) season(s), must conspicuously wear either a head covering or an outer garment above the waistline consisting of hunter orange. Camouflage hunter orange is legal.
All other hunters, including trappers, except those hunting waterfowl, crow, crane, or dove, or while hunting furbearing animals at night, must wear either a head covering or upper garment of hunter orange clothing while hunting during any antelope, bear, deer or elk firearms (muzzleloader or gun) season in any open hunting area (zone, county or area), this includes public lands closed to the firearm(s) season(s). Camouflage hunter orange is legal.
Deer Processors
Deer hunters can view a list of deer processing sites . Many deer processors participate in the Hunters Against Hunger program, which allows hunters who legally harvest a deer during any deer season to donate the meat to feed hungry Oklahomans. With more opportunities to harvest antlerless deer this fall, the time has never been better to donate to the Hunters Against Hunger program.
Hunting Regulations
GENERAL
Regulation Changes
General Hunting Regulations
Hunter Education Info
LICENSE INFO
Residency Definitions
License Requirements
License Exemptions
Specialty Licenses
License Fees
BIG GAME
Big Game Regulations
Deer
Elk
Bear
Antelope
Mountain Lion
GAME BIRDS
General Turkey Regulations
Fall Turkey
Spring Turkey
Quail (Bobwhite & Scaled)
Pheasant Regulations
MIGRATORY BIRDS
Migratory Game Bird Regulations
Dove
Crow, Woodcock, Rail, Snipe, Gallinule
Wetland Development Units
Youth, Veteran & Active Military Waterfowl Hunting Opportunities
Ducks, Mergansers & Coots
September Teal, Geese & Sandhill Cranes
Waterfowl Hunting Blinds
Extended Falconry Seasons
SMALL GAME/FURBEARER
Small Game
Hog (Feral Swine)
Furbearer/Coyote
Reptile & Amphibian
Public Hunting Areas
OLAP Regulations (Hunting)
Department-Managed Area Rules
Public Hunting Areas: Special Regulations
This guide is not a legal document. This guide is an interpretive summary of Title 29 and Title 800 Oklahoma statutes governing fish and wildlife laws as established by the Oklahoma Wildlife Conservation Commission and contains those rules that affect the average hunter or angler. For a complete listing of official regulations, you can obtain copies of current Oklahoma statutes through your local library or online resouces.
Regulation questions?
Contact Us
Recent Journals
Summer Adaptations: Wildlife Are Feeling Hot, Hot, Hot
On top of their everyday survival challenges, Oklahoma’s wildlife are often subjected to grueling hot temperatures and drought conditions. We share our favorite summer adaptations that dragonflies, birds, lizards, snakes, and even squirrels use to deal with scorching conditions.
Aug 20, 2026
Red River Carp Stakeout
Invasive carp, including silver or “jumping” carp, have become an ecological horror story in the United States, consuming river-loads of plankton and other foods and, in some states, outcompeting native fish communities. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is monitoring the Red River downstream of Denison Dam to learn more about adult invasive carp movements and conducting early detection sampling for carp larvae. So far, larval invasive carp have not been documented in this river system.
Aug 20, 2026
Hunter Education: A Key Step to Hunting in Oklahoma
Now is the time to sign up for a free Hunter Education clinic from the Oklahoma Department of Wildlife conservation, and there's sure to be one near you soon.
Aug 19, 2026
Donate today to help support Oklahoma's wildlife.
Quick Links
Careers & Internships
Outdoor Oklahoma
Wildlife Conservation Foundation
Oklahoma Wildlife
The Commission
Legislative Tracker
Submit Outdoor Calendar Events
Hunting & Fishing
Hunting Seasons
Online Hunter Education
Harvest Reports
Fishing Reports
Surveys & Reports
Cervidae (Deer, Elk, Moose, etc.) Import
Hot Topics
Active Prescribed Burns
ODWC Bids & Solicitations
Ag/Hay/Grazing Leases
Accountability Initiative
Wildlife Encounters
Oklahoma Habitat Enhancement Partnership
Opportunity For Public Input
GoOutdoorsOK
Purchase License
(opens in a new tab)
Outdoor Store
(opens in a new tab)
Outdoor Calendar
(opens in a new tab)
Mobile App
Android
(opens in a new tab)
iOS
(opens in a new tab)
Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation on Facebook (opens in a new tab)
Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation on X (opens in a new tab)
Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation on TikTok (opens in a new tab)
Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation on YouTube (opens in a new tab)
Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation on Instagram (opens in a new tab)
Footer menu
Contact Us
FAQs
Disclaimer
Civil Rights Statement
Social Media Policy
Website Accessibility Statement
Copyright ©2026 Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation. All Rights Reserved.