Deer - Big Game Season | Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation
Skip to main content
Main navigation
Licensing
Licensing
Disability License
Lifetime License Info
License Options/Fees
Licensing System FAQ
Other Permits & Licenses
Purchase License Online
Purchase In Person
Veteran Licensing
Fishing
Fishing
Aquatic Nuisance Species
Black Bass & Tournaments
Boating Access
Close To Home Fishing Program
E-CHECK
Fish Attractor Map
Fisheries Contact
Fishing Guides
Fishing Regulations
Fishing Reports
Fishing Tips
Game Warden Directory
Oklahoma Angler Recognition Program
Pond Management
Sportfish Restoration Program
State Records
The Dock - Upload Your Catch
Where To Fish
Hunting
Hunting
Chronic Wasting Disease (CWD)
Controlled Hunts
Commercial Hunt Area List
Cy Curtis Program
E-CHECK
Game Processors
Game Warden Directory
Hunter Education
Hunting Regulations
Hunting Resources
Hunting Seasons
The Tailgate - Upload Your Harvest
WMA Shooting Ranges
Where To Hunt
Wildlife
Wildlife
Conservation Plates
Field Guide
Nuisance Wildlife
Report Wildlife Sightings
Threatened & Endangered
Wildlife Diversity
Wildlife Encounters
Wildlife Rehabilitators
Watchable Wildlife
What We Do
Education Programs
Game Wardens
Lands & Minerals
Landowner Programs
Maps
Oklahoma Land Access Program
Outdoor Calendar
Outdoor Oklahoma Adventures
Outdoor Oklahoma Journal
Outdoor Oklahoma Magazine
Outdoor Oklahoma TV
Research & Surveys
About Us
About The ODWC
Accountability Initiative
Bids & Solicitations
Careers & Internships
Contact Us
FAQs
Game Warden Directory
Legislative Tracker
Meet The Staff
ODWC Timeline
Buy License
Home
Hunting
Regulations
Deer - Big Game Season
ATTENTION Cimarron, Texas, Woodward, Major, and Woods County Hunters!
To monitor CWD presence, hunters should read the Selective Surveillance Area (SSA) rules and regulations.
SSA Rules & Regulations
Combined Season Limit
Six: no more than two may be antlered.
This includes deer archery, youth deer gun, deer muzzleloader and deer gun seasons.
Deer taken during Jan. 1-15, 2027, count toward the 2026 combined season limit.
Deer taken during controlled hunts or the holiday antlerless deer gun season do not count toward this limit.
Antlered Deer Definition
Any deer, regardless of sex, with at least three inches of antler length above the natural hairline on either side.
Tracking Devices
Telemetric radio tracking devices for deer hunting are legal. However, thermal tracking devices are illegal.
Antlerless Deer Zones
Antlerless deer may only be harvested during firearm seasons on specified days and in zones open to antlerless harvest .
License Requirements
Hunters must be in possession of all appropriate licenses before hunting a deer. Hunters using an air-powered arrow rifle must purchase a one-time Arrow Rifle Permit.
Resident Youth (unless exempt):
Youth Annual Super Hunting License
Resident ( unless exempt ):
Resident Annual Hunting License, and
Resident Deer License for that particular season.
Nonresident Youth (unless exempt):
Nonresident Youth 5-day Super Hunting or
Nonresident Youth Annual Super Hunting License
Nonresident ( unless exempt ):
Nonresident Annual Hunting License, and
Nonresident Deer License for that particular season.
*** The adult nonresident 5-day hunting license is not valid for hunting deer.
Hunters in the Know Take a Doe!
WANT TO HARVEST A BIG BUCK? START BY HARVESTING A DOE...
With antlerless deer harvest trending downward the past few years, hunters are urged to take advantage of the state's more liberal bag limits and more open days for antlerless harvest. There are several benefits to additional antlerless harvest, and the most notable is a more even buck-to-doe ratio. Healthier deer, better hunting, and better antler development all begin with a more even buck-to-doe ratio.
In addition to increased opportunities for antlerless hunting, the Wildlife Department's Deer Management Program (DMAP ) helps landowners intensively manage deer herds on private land. It is designed to give cooperators -- whether landowners, hunt clubs, or lease operators -- extra assistance in managing deer. Under the program, cooperators set their own management goals ranging from producing maximum numbers of harvestable deer to producing trophy bucks. Because it is very difficult to manage deer and achieve realistic goals on small parcels of land, a minimum of 1,000 acres is required. Potential applicants with less than 1,000 acres may combine lands with adjoining landowners to meet the required minimum.
For more information visit our antlerless harvest page .
Season Dates & Bag Limits
Deer Archery
Oct 1, 2026
- Jan 15, 2027
Six : no more than two may be antlered. All deer taken during the deer archery season count toward the hunter’s combined season limit of six deer.
Youth Deer Gun
Oct 16, 2026
- Oct 18, 2026
Two : no more than one may be antlered. Harvest of antlerless mule deer is prohibited. All deer taken during the youth deer gun season are included in the hunter’s combined season limit of six deer, but are not included as part of the hunter’s regular deer gun season limit of four deer.
Youth Deer Gun Age Requirements
17 years old and younger. All youth hunters must be accompanied by an adult 18 years of age or older with current hunting license.
Deer Muzzleloader
Oct 24, 2026
- Nov 1, 2026
Four : no more than one may be antlered. Harvest of antlerless mule deer is prohibited. Antlerless harvest limits are set by zone. Zone 1: One antlerless. Zones 2, 7 & 8: four antlerless. Zones 3, 4, 5, 6 & 9: two antlerless. Zone 10: one antlerless. See Antlerless Deer Zones for the Antlerless Deer Zones map. All deer taken during the deer muzzleloader season count toward the hunter’s combined season limit of six deer.
Deer Gun
Nov 21, 2026
- Dec 6, 2026
Four : no more than one may be antlered. Harvest of antlerless mule deer is prohibited. Antlerless harvest limits are set by zone. Zone 1: one antlerless. Zones 2, 7 & 8: four antlerless. Zones 3, 4, 5, 6 & 9: two antlerless. Zone 10: one antlerless. See Antlerless Deer Zones for the Antlerless Deer Zones map. All deer taken during the deer gun season count toward the hunter’s combined season limit of six deer.
Holiday Antlerless Deer Gun
Dec 18, 2026
- Dec 31, 2026
Two : antlerless only. Harvest of antlerless mule deer is prohibited. Deer taken during the holiday antlerless deer gun season do not count toward the hunter’s combined season limit of six deer.
Youth Deer Gun Accompanying Hunter Requirements
Accompanying adult hunter may not gun hunt, but may archery hunt provided they have the appropriate licenses.
Accompanying adult hunter may not possess any firearms for hunting purposes, see Carry of Firearms section on General Hunting Regulations for constitutional carry exemption(s).
Youth Fall Turkey Opportunity
Oct. 16 - 18, 2026
Resident and nonresident youths participating in the youth deer gun season may harvest a turkey (see map on Turkey Regulations for open counties and legal means of take). Legal means of taking are the same as equipment described as legal for the fall turkey season (see Turkey Regulations ). Turkey cannot be harvested within 100 yards of any bait (see Turkey Regulations ). A turkey taken during the Youth Deer Gun season counts toward the statewide fall turkey bag limit of one.
Antlerless Deer Zones
Image
Antlerless limits may vary on public land, see Special Area Regulations .
Zone 1 Antlerless Days
Zone 1 is closed to antlerless muzzleloader harvest and has a one antlerless white-tailed deer limit for deer gun season. Combined season bag limit of no more than six antlerless deer applies.
Archery Season: Oct. 1, 2026 - Jan. 15, 2027
Youth Deer Gun Season: Oct. 16 - 18
Muzzleloader Season: Oct. 24 - Nov. 1
Deer Gun Season : Nov. 21 - Dec. 6 The harvest of antlerless mule deer is prohibited.
Holiday Antlerless Deer Gun Season: Dec. 18-31
Zones 2, 7 & 8 Antlerless Days
Zones 2, 7, and 8 have a four antlerless deer limit for deer muzzleloader season and a four antlerless limit for deer gun season. Combined season bag limit of no more than six antlerless deer applies.
Archery Season: Oct. 1, 2026 - Jan. 15, 2027
Youth Deer Gun Season: Oct. 16 - 18
Muzzleloader Season: Oct. 24 - Nov. 1
Deer Gun Season: Nov. 21 - Dec. 6
Holiday Antlerless Deer Gun Season: Dec. 18 - 31 The bag limit for the Holiday Antlerless Deer Gun Season is two antlerless deer and do not count against the season bag limit.
Zones 3, 4, 5, 6 & 9 Antlerless Days
Zones 3, 4, 5, 6, and 9 have a two antlerless deer limit for deer muzzleloader season and a two antlerless deer limit for deer gun season. Combined season bag limit of no more than six antlerless deer applies.
Archery Season: Oct. 1, 2026 - Jan. 15, 2027
Youth Deer Gun Season: Oct. 16 - 18
Muzzleloader Season: Oct. 24 - Nov. 1
Deer Gun Season: Nov. 21 - Dec. 6
Holiday Antlerless Deer Gun Season: Dec. 18 - 31 The bag limit for the Holiday Antlerless Deer gun Season is two antlerless deer. Antlerless deer harvested during the holiday antlerless deer gun season are bonus deer and do not count against the season bag limit.
Zone 10 Antlerless Days
Zone 10 has a one antlerless deer limit for deer muzzleloader season and a one antlerless deer limit for deer gun season and a two antlerless deer limit for the Holiday Antlerless Deer Gun Season. combined season bag limit of no more than six antlerless deer applies.
Archery Season: Oct. 1, 2026 - Jan. 15, 2027
Youth Deer Gun Season: Oct. 16 - 18
Muzzleloader Season: Oct. 24 - Nov. 1
Deer Gun Season: Nov. 21 - Dec. 6
Holiday Antlerless Deer Gun Season: Dec. 18-31 The bag limit for the holiday Antlerless Deer gun Season is two antlerless deer. Antlerless deer harvested during the holiday antlerless deer gun season are bonus deer and do not count against the season bag limit.
Hunting Regulations
GENERAL
Regulation Changes
General Hunting Regulations
Hunter Education Info
LICENSE INFO
Residency Definitions
License Requirements
License Exemptions
Specialty Licenses
License Fees
BIG GAME
Big Game Regulations
Deer
Elk
Bear
Antelope
Mountain Lion
GAME BIRDS
General Turkey Regulations
Fall Turkey
Spring Turkey
Quail (Bobwhite & Scaled)
Pheasant Regulations
MIGRATORY BIRDS
Migratory Game Bird Regulations
Dove
Crow, Woodcock, Rail, Snipe, Gallinule
Wetland Development Units
Youth, Veteran & Active Military Waterfowl Hunting Opportunities
Ducks, Mergansers & Coots
September Teal, Geese & Sandhill Cranes
Waterfowl Hunting Blinds
Extended Falconry Seasons
SMALL GAME/FURBEARER
Small Game
Hog (Feral Swine)
Furbearer/Coyote
Reptile & Amphibian
Public Hunting Areas
OLAP Regulations (Hunting)
Department-Managed Area Rules
Public Hunting Areas: Special Regulations
This guide is not a legal document. This guide is an interpretive summary of Title 29 and Title 800 Oklahoma statutes governing fish and wildlife laws as established by the Oklahoma Wildlife Conservation Commission and contains those rules that affect the average hunter or angler. For a complete listing of official regulations, you can obtain copies of current Oklahoma statutes through your local library or online resouces.
Regulation questions?
Contact Us
Recent Journals
Summer Adaptations: Wildlife Are Feeling Hot, Hot, Hot
On top of their everyday survival challenges, Oklahoma’s wildlife are often subjected to grueling hot temperatures and drought conditions. We share our favorite summer adaptations that dragonflies, birds, lizards, snakes, and even squirrels use to deal with scorching conditions.
Aug 20, 2026
Red River Carp Stakeout
Invasive carp, including silver or “jumping” carp, have become an ecological horror story in the United States, consuming river-loads of plankton and other foods and, in some states, outcompeting native fish communities. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is monitoring the Red River downstream of Denison Dam to learn more about adult invasive carp movements and conducting early detection sampling for carp larvae. So far, larval invasive carp have not been documented in this river system.
Aug 20, 2026
Hunter Education: A Key Step to Hunting in Oklahoma
Now is the time to sign up for a free Hunter Education clinic from the Oklahoma Department of Wildlife conservation, and there's sure to be one near you soon.
Aug 19, 2026
Donate today to help support Oklahoma's wildlife.
Quick Links
Careers & Internships
Outdoor Oklahoma
Wildlife Conservation Foundation
Oklahoma Wildlife
The Commission
Legislative Tracker
Submit Outdoor Calendar Events
Hunting & Fishing
Hunting Seasons
Online Hunter Education
Harvest Reports
Fishing Reports
Surveys & Reports
Cervidae (Deer, Elk, Moose, etc.) Import
Hot Topics
Active Prescribed Burns
ODWC Bids & Solicitations
Ag/Hay/Grazing Leases
Accountability Initiative
Wildlife Encounters
Oklahoma Habitat Enhancement Partnership
Opportunity For Public Input
GoOutdoorsOK
Purchase License
(opens in a new tab)
Outdoor Store
(opens in a new tab)
Outdoor Calendar
(opens in a new tab)
Mobile App
Android
(opens in a new tab)
iOS
(opens in a new tab)
Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation on Facebook (opens in a new tab)
Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation on X (opens in a new tab)
Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation on TikTok (opens in a new tab)
Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation on YouTube (opens in a new tab)
Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation on Instagram (opens in a new tab)
Footer menu
Contact Us
FAQs
Disclaimer
Civil Rights Statement
Social Media Policy
Website Accessibility Statement
Copyright ©2026 Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation. All Rights Reserved.