Elk - Big Game Season | Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation
Skip to main content
Main navigation
Licensing
Licensing
Disability License
Lifetime License Info
License Options/Fees
Licensing System FAQ
Other Permits & Licenses
Purchase License Online
Purchase In Person
Veteran Licensing
Fishing
Fishing
Aquatic Nuisance Species
Black Bass & Tournaments
Boating Access
Close To Home Fishing Program
E-CHECK
Fish Attractor Map
Fisheries Contact
Fishing Guides
Fishing Regulations
Fishing Reports
Fishing Tips
Game Warden Directory
Oklahoma Angler Recognition Program
Pond Management
Sportfish Restoration Program
State Records
The Dock - Upload Your Catch
Where To Fish
Hunting
Hunting
Chronic Wasting Disease (CWD)
Controlled Hunts
Commercial Hunt Area List
Cy Curtis Program
E-CHECK
Game Processors
Game Warden Directory
Hunter Education
Hunting Regulations
Hunting Resources
Hunting Seasons
The Tailgate - Upload Your Harvest
WMA Shooting Ranges
Where To Hunt
Wildlife
Wildlife
Conservation Plates
Field Guide
Nuisance Wildlife
Report Wildlife Sightings
Threatened & Endangered
Wildlife Diversity
Wildlife Encounters
Wildlife Rehabilitators
Watchable Wildlife
What We Do
Education Programs
Game Wardens
Lands & Minerals
Landowner Programs
Maps
Oklahoma Land Access Program
Outdoor Calendar
Outdoor Oklahoma Adventures
Outdoor Oklahoma Journal
Outdoor Oklahoma Magazine
Outdoor Oklahoma TV
Research & Surveys
About Us
About The ODWC
Accountability Initiative
Bids & Solicitations
Careers & Internships
Contact Us
FAQs
Game Warden Directory
Legislative Tracker
Meet The Staff
ODWC Timeline
Buy License
Home
Hunting
Regulations
Elk - Big Game Season
For requirements on hunter orange, legal means of taking, public lands, shooting hours, carcass disposal, more than one method of take in the field, tracking with dogs, field tagging, and checking requirements, see Big Game Regulations .
ATTENTION Cimarron, Texas, Woodward, Major, and Woods County Hunters!
To monitor CWD presence, hunters should read the Selective Surveillance Area (SSA) rules and regulations.
SSA Rules & Regulations
Combined Season Limit
Two: either sex.
Hunters must check specific zone bag limit.
This includes elk archery, youth elk gun, elk muzzleloader, elk gun, and holiday antlerless elk gun seasons.
Elk taken during Jan. 1-31, 2027, count toward the 2026 combined season limit.
Elk taken during controlled hunts do not count toward the combined season limit.
Legal Elk Definition
An antlered elk is defined as any elk with at least 6 inches of antler above the natural hairline on either side, except in the Special Southwest Zone where a legal bull must have at least five points on at least one side of the antlers (a point is defined as the tip of the main antler beam and any projection arising from the main antler beam that is at least one inch in length).
An antlerless elk is defined as any elk with less than 6 inches of antler above the natural hairline on either side, regardless of sex.
Written Landowner Permission
All elk hunters must possess written permission from the landowner or, where appropriate, the lessee (tenant). Permission must be carried on the person while hunting elk. Elk hunters may only hunt on those lands for which they have written permission. Landowners, operators and immediate family are exempt from written permission.
Zone Harvest Quota
Before hunting, all hunters must check the Wildlife Department’s website at wildlifedepartment.com to ensure the quota has not been met for the zone in which they will be hunting. Once the zone quota has been met, the season is closed.
Check Zone Quota
Public Lands
Elk hunting is closed on all Department owned or managed lands, except for controlled elk hunt permittees on areas and dates designated on their controlled hunt permit.
License Requirements
Hunters must be in possession of all appropriate licenses before hunting elk. Hunters using an air-powered arrow rifle must purchase a one-time Arrow Rifle Permit.
Resident Youth (unless exempt):
Youth Annual Super Hunting License
Resident (unless exempt):
Resident Annual Hunting License, and
Resident Elk License for that particular season (for each elk hunted).
Jan. 1-31: must be in possession of a resident hunting license and a resident elk license for the current calendar year. Unfilled elk license (Jan. 1-31) may be used the following fall season.
Nonresident Youth (unless exempt)
Nonresident Youth 5-day Super Hunting or
Nonresident Youth Annual Super Hunting License
Nonresident (unless exempt):
Nonresident Annual Hunting License, and
Nonresident Elk License for that particular season. (for each elk hunted)
*** The adult nonresident 5-day hunting license is not valid for hunting elk.
Jan. 1-31: must be in possession of a nonresident elk license for the current calendar year. Unfilled elk license (Jan. 1-31) may be used the following fall season.
Season Dates
Elk Archery
Oct 1, 2026
- Jan 15, 2027
(only in open zones)
Youth Elk Gun
Oct 16, 2026
- Oct 18, 2026
(only in open zones)
Elk Muzzleloader
Oct 24, 2026
- Nov 1, 2026
(only in open zones)
Elk Gun
Nov 21, 2026
- Dec 6, 2026
(only in open zones)
Holiday Antlerless Elk Gun
Dec 18, 2026
- Dec 31, 2026
(only in open zones)
Elk Open Zones
Panhandle Zone : All private lands in Beaver, Cimarron, and Texas counties.
Zone bag limit: Two (2) elk, one of which must be antlerless.
Zone harvest quota: Eighty (80) elk, no more than Sixty (60) may be antlered.
Special Northwest Zone : All private lands in Woodward, Dewey and Ellis counties, and a portion of Roger Mills County north of State Highways 33 and 47 to the north county line and west to the state border and east to the county line.
Zone bag limit: One (1) elk, regardless of sex.
Zone harvest quota: Eight (8) elk, no more than 3 of which may be antlered.
Northwest Zone : All private lands north of Interstate 40 and west of Interstate 35, excluding the counties in the Panhandle Zone and counties or parts thereof in the Special Northwest Zone.
Zone bag limit: One (1) elk, regardless of sex.
Zone harvest quota: Eight (8) elk.
Northeast Zone : All private lands north of Interstate 40 and east of Interstate 35.
Zone bag limit: One (1) elk, regardless of sex.
Zone harvest quota: Twenty (20) elk.
Southeast Zone : All private lands south of Interstate 40 and east of Interstate 35.
Zone bag limit: One (1) elk, regardless of sex.
Zone harvest quota: Five (5) elk.
Southwest Zone : All private lands south of Interstate 40 and west of Interstate 35, excluding the counties in the Special Southwest Zone.
Zone bag limit: One (1) elk, regardless of sex.
Zone harvest quota: Thirty (30) elk.
Special Southeast Zone
All privates lands east of Interstate 35 in the counties of Carter and Murray.
Season Dates: Same as statewide season dates for deer archery season, deer youth gun season, deer primitive firearms season, regular deer gun season and the holiday deer gun antlerless season where open.
Zone bag limit: One (1) elk regardless of sex.
Zone harvest quota: Eight (8) elk, no more than five (5) of which may be antlered.
Special Southwest Zone
These season dates are not in addition to the season dates in Open Zones.
These season dates include all private lands in Caddo, Comanche and Kiowa counties.
Archery: Oct. 1-7 and Dec. 12-16.
Muzzleloader : Season closed.
Gun : Oct. 8-14 and Dec. 17-20, 2026.
Youth Elk Gun : Oct. 16-18
Additional Antlerless Gun Season : Nov. 21 - Dec. 6, 2026 and Jan. 1-31, 2027; antlerless only.
Zone bag limit: Two (2) elk, regardless of sex, one of which must be antlerless.
Zone harvest quota: There is no quota in this zone.
Elk Zones For Private Lands
(Statewide Elk Season)
Image
Panhandle Zone Quota : 80
Northwest Zone Quota: 8
Special Northwest Zone Quota: 8
Northeast Zone Quota: 20
Southwest Zone Quota: 30
Special Southwest Zone Quota: No Quota
Southeast Zone Quota: 5
Special Southeast Zone: 8
Each elk hunting zone (except the Special Southwest Zone) has a quota that limits the number of elk that may be harvested in that zone.
Hunters must go online before hunting to check the elk quota status for the zone in which they are hunting.
Successful hunters are required to E-Check their elk harvest within 24 hours of leaving the hunt area at GoOutdoorsOklahoma.com
Once a zone's quota has been met, elk season is closed in that zone.
Hunting Regulations
GENERAL
Regulation Changes
General Hunting Regulations
Hunter Education Info
LICENSE INFO
Residency Definitions
License Requirements
License Exemptions
Specialty Licenses
License Fees
BIG GAME
Big Game Regulations
Deer
Elk
Bear
Antelope
Mountain Lion
GAME BIRDS
General Turkey Regulations
Fall Turkey
Spring Turkey
Quail (Bobwhite & Scaled)
Pheasant Regulations
MIGRATORY BIRDS
Migratory Game Bird Regulations
Dove
Crow, Woodcock, Rail, Snipe, Gallinule
Wetland Development Units
Youth, Veteran & Active Military Waterfowl Hunting Opportunities
Ducks, Mergansers & Coots
September Teal, Geese & Sandhill Cranes
Waterfowl Hunting Blinds
Extended Falconry Seasons
SMALL GAME/FURBEARER
Small Game
Hog (Feral Swine)
Furbearer/Coyote
Reptile & Amphibian
Public Hunting Areas
OLAP Regulations (Hunting)
Department-Managed Area Rules
Public Hunting Areas: Special Regulations
This guide is not a legal document. This guide is an interpretive summary of Title 29 and Title 800 Oklahoma statutes governing fish and wildlife laws as established by the Oklahoma Wildlife Conservation Commission and contains those rules that affect the average hunter or angler. For a complete listing of official regulations, you can obtain copies of current Oklahoma statutes through your local library or online resouces.
Regulation questions?
Contact Us
Recent Journals
Summer Adaptations: Wildlife Are Feeling Hot, Hot, Hot
On top of their everyday survival challenges, Oklahoma’s wildlife are often subjected to grueling hot temperatures and drought conditions. We share our favorite summer adaptations that dragonflies, birds, lizards, snakes, and even squirrels use to deal with scorching conditions.
Aug 20, 2026
Red River Carp Stakeout
Invasive carp, including silver or “jumping” carp, have become an ecological horror story in the United States, consuming river-loads of plankton and other foods and, in some states, outcompeting native fish communities. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is monitoring the Red River downstream of Denison Dam to learn more about adult invasive carp movements and conducting early detection sampling for carp larvae. So far, larval invasive carp have not been documented in this river system.
Aug 20, 2026
Hunter Education: A Key Step to Hunting in Oklahoma
Now is the time to sign up for a free Hunter Education clinic from the Oklahoma Department of Wildlife conservation, and there's sure to be one near you soon.
Aug 19, 2026
Donate today to help support Oklahoma's wildlife.
Quick Links
Careers & Internships
Outdoor Oklahoma
Wildlife Conservation Foundation
Oklahoma Wildlife
The Commission
Legislative Tracker
Submit Outdoor Calendar Events
Hunting & Fishing
Hunting Seasons
Online Hunter Education
Harvest Reports
Fishing Reports
Surveys & Reports
Cervidae (Deer, Elk, Moose, etc.) Import
Hot Topics
Active Prescribed Burns
ODWC Bids & Solicitations
Ag/Hay/Grazing Leases
Accountability Initiative
Wildlife Encounters
Oklahoma Habitat Enhancement Partnership
Opportunity For Public Input
GoOutdoorsOK
Purchase License
(opens in a new tab)
Outdoor Store
(opens in a new tab)
Outdoor Calendar
(opens in a new tab)
Mobile App
Android
(opens in a new tab)
iOS
(opens in a new tab)
Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation on Facebook (opens in a new tab)
Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation on X (opens in a new tab)
Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation on TikTok (opens in a new tab)
Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation on YouTube (opens in a new tab)
Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation on Instagram (opens in a new tab)
Footer menu
Contact Us
FAQs
Disclaimer
Civil Rights Statement
Social Media Policy
Website Accessibility Statement
Copyright ©2026 Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation. All Rights Reserved.