General Hunting Regulations | Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation
Skip to main content
Main navigation
Licensing
Licensing
Disability License
Lifetime License Info
License Options/Fees
Licensing System FAQ
Other Permits & Licenses
Purchase License Online
Purchase In Person
Veteran Licensing
Fishing
Fishing
Aquatic Nuisance Species
Black Bass & Tournaments
Boating Access
Close To Home Fishing Program
E-CHECK
Fish Attractor Map
Fisheries Contact
Fishing Guides
Fishing Regulations
Fishing Reports
Fishing Tips
Game Warden Directory
Oklahoma Angler Recognition Program
Pond Management
Sportfish Restoration Program
State Records
The Dock - Upload Your Catch
Where To Fish
Hunting
Hunting
Chronic Wasting Disease (CWD)
Controlled Hunts
Commercial Hunt Area List
Cy Curtis Program
E-CHECK
Game Processors
Game Warden Directory
Hunter Education
Hunting Regulations
Hunting Resources
Hunting Seasons
The Tailgate - Upload Your Harvest
WMA Shooting Ranges
Where To Hunt
Wildlife
Wildlife
Conservation Plates
Field Guide
Nuisance Wildlife
Report Wildlife Sightings
Threatened & Endangered
Wildlife Diversity
Wildlife Encounters
Wildlife Rehabilitators
Watchable Wildlife
What We Do
Education Programs
Game Wardens
Lands & Minerals
Landowner Programs
Maps
Oklahoma Land Access Program
Outdoor Calendar
Outdoor Oklahoma Adventures
Outdoor Oklahoma Journal
Outdoor Oklahoma Magazine
Outdoor Oklahoma TV
Research & Surveys
About Us
About The ODWC
Accountability Initiative
Bids & Solicitations
Careers & Internships
Contact Us
FAQs
Game Warden Directory
Legislative Tracker
Meet The Staff
ODWC Timeline
Buy License
Home
Hunting
Regulations
General Hunting Regulations
FREE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Oklahoma is 95% privately owned, habitat management on those acres is critical for wildlife. Free technical assistance is available to landowners across the state.
Learn More
Computer-Aided Hunting
The use of computer software or services that allow a person, not physically present, to remotely control a firearm or weapon to hunt any live animal or bird is prohibited. No person shall engage in any activity that provides, sells, offers for sale, assists in, or provides facilities for computer-assisted remote control hunting of wildlife.
Dogs For Hunting
Dogs may not be used in taking bear, deer, elk, antelope and turkey.
Except as otherwise provided, nothing shall prohibit the year-round pursuit of game (species that can be lawfully hunted with dogs) for dog training or sport only. However, unless otherwise provided, no person in pursuit of game with hunting dogs outside the regular harvest season shall possess the means to harvest such game.
Drone / UAV
No person shall use or possess a night-vision device or a thermal imaging device; or takeoff, operate from, or land any unmanned aerial vehicle (Drone) on ODWC-owned or managed lands. UAVs / drones may be used to scout or recover wounded wildlife on private property. Hunting is prohibited in the same area on the same day the drone is used. If recovering wildlife, hunters must notify the local game warden before and after the search and record the flight. While drone/UAV is in use, no method of take is allowed while recovering the animal with the exception of constitutional carry. If the animal is alive the game warden must be notified, the drone must land immediately, and hunting may not resume for at least 4 hours. It is unlawful to use a drone to harass wildlife or interfere with lawful hunting, fishing, or trapping. Do not use a drone in a way that causes wildlife to flee or change its normal behavior.
Final Destination
For purposes of pheasant, turkey, bear, deer, elk, Eurasian collared dove and antelope, “final destination” shall be the hunter’s residence or place of consumption.
Harvest Reporting of Game
All deer, elk, antelope, bear, or turkey taken must be reported by the hunter to the Department within 24 hours of leaving the hunt area. Once reported, a carcass tag or online confirmation number will be issued. This tag or confirmation number must remain with the carcass to its final destination or through processing and/or storage at a commercial processing or storage facility. Evidence of sex must remain naturally attached to the carcass until the harvest has been properly reported.
Headlighting / Spotlighting
No person may attempt to take, take, attempt to catch, catch, attempt to capture, capture, attempt to kill, or kill any deer, feral animal or other wildlife, except fish and frogs or except as provided by law, by the use of a vehicle-mounted spotlight or other powerful light at night, by what is commonly known as “headlighting” (or “spotlighting”) or use any light enhancement device (night scope). Provided, however, nothing in this code shall prevent one from possessing a .22 caliber rimfire rifle or .22 caliber rimfire pistol and a light carried on his person while in pursuit of furbearers with hounds during the legal open furbearer season, while possessing a valid hunting license unless exempt. Except during deer gun seasons, a landowner, agricultural lessee, or their designated agent with written permission from the landowner or agricultural lessee may control nuisance or damage by coyotes or feral swine without a permit during the day or night, and without limitation by statewide season regulations or bag limits, and with the use of any legal means of take, to protect marketable agricultural crops, livestock or processed feed, seed, or other materials used in the production of an agricultural commodity. Landowners or agricultural lessees performing nuisance control activities shall be required to have a current agricultural exemption permit issued by the Oklahoma Tax Commission. A landowner, agricultural lessee, or designated agent of the landowner or lessee may use a headlight, thermal, or light enhancement device carried on the person, a vehicle with or without a mounted spotlight or night vision equipment while controlling nuisance coyotes and feral swine at night.
Nuisance Coyote / Ag feral Swine Control Provisions
Landowners or agricultural lessees conducting nuisance control activities must possess a current agricultural exemption permit issued by the Oklahoma Tax Commission.
Except during deer gun seasons, a landowner, agricultural lessee, or designated agent acting with written permission from the landowner or agricultural lessee may control nuisance or depredating coyotes and/or feral swine, day or night, without a permit and without statewide season or bag limit restrictions, using any otherwise legal means of take to protect marketable agricultural crops, livestock, processed feed, seed, or other materials used in the production of an agricultural commodity.
While controlling nuisance or depredating coyotes and/or feral swine at night, a landowner, agricultural lessee, or designated agent may use a headlight, thermal imaging device, light-enhancement device, night vision equipment, or a vehicle with or without a mounted spotlight.
These provisions do not authorize the use of headlights, thermal devices, night vision equipment, or spotlights from a public roadway. Persons convicted of, or pleading guilty to violations of 29 O.S. § 5-203.1 or 29 O.S. § 5-411 within the previous three years are prohibited from controlling nuisance or depredating coyotes and/or feral swine at night.
Hunting During Big Game Seasons
Any person hunting any animals in open areas during the youth deer gun, bear muzzle­loader, deer muzzleloader, deer gun, holiday antlerless deer gun (in open zones), elk gun (in open counties) or September antelope gun (in open areas) seasons with a shotgun and rifled slug, or any rifle or handgun larger than a .22 caliber long rifle, must possess a valid bear, deer, elk, or antelope license, unless otherwise exempt.
Hunting From Motor Vehicles
No person may harass, attempt to capture, capture, attempt to take, take, kill or attempt to kill any wildlife with the aid of any motor-driven land, air or water conveyance, except a non-ambulatory person may hunt from said conveyances with a non-ambulatory or motor vehicle permit. Provided, however, nothing in this code shall prevent the use of motor-driven land or water conveyances for following dogs in the act of hunting, when use of said conveyances is restricted to public roads or waterways. Said conveyances may be used on private property for following dogs in the act of hunting with the landowner’s or occupant’s permission.
Landowner Permission
Hunters/Trappers must obtain permission to enter any posted or occupied land or land primarily devoted to farming, ranching or forestry purposes.
Nothing in this guide shall be interpreted as permitting hunting or allowing access into any area, public or private, without permission from the owners or custodian as required by law. All persons are prohibited from entering land owned by another without permission for the sole purpose of retrieving domestic livestock or other animals.
Consent is not valid for more than one year, unless the owner, lessee, or occupant specifically grants consent for a specified period of time.
Carry of Firearms
Unless otherwise provided by state law, a person may carry a firearm on any private or public state lands. This includes, but is not limited to, while hunting, fishing, scouting and tracking. Federal lands such as Corps of Engineers or National Wildlife Refuges are subject to additional regulations that may prevent the provisions of this act.
Possessing Wildlife
In order to transfer any legally taken wildlife or portions thereof, the person transferring such wildlife must give the transferee written or electronic information containing a statement of transfer, with the names and address of the transferor and transferee, along with the transferor's Department customer identification number, date taken, and the number and type of wildlife. In addition, all wildlife requiring harvest reporting with the Department must include the reported harvest's confirmation number as proof the harvest has been properly reported to the Department. The transferor must not receive any compensation for the transfer. Any wildlife left with a taxidermist or meat processor must include the written information identifying the transferor and harvest, including any reported harvest's confirmation number, if required.The keeping of wildlife as pets and the sale of wildlife or parts is strictly controlled by state and federal laws.
Protected Species
All migratory birds, which include all hawks, owls, eagles, songbirds and all other birds, except resident game birds, house sparrows and starlings, are protected by federal and state law. House sparrows and starlings are the only birds that are not protected by either federal or state law. However, federal regulations provide for the control of blackbirds under a depredation order. For complete regulations, see 50 CFR, Part 20.43.
Endangered and threatened species are protected by federal and/or state law.
Oklahoma's Endangered and Threatened Species
Mammals: Gray bat, northern long-eared bat, Ozark big-eared bat, Indiana bat. Birds: Whooping crane, piping plover, eastern black rail, red knot, red-cockaded woodpecker. Fish: Ozark cavefish, leopard darter, Neosho madtom, blackside darter, longnose darter, Arkansas River shiner. Invertebrates: Winged mapleleaf mussel, scaleshell mussel, Ouachita rock pocketbook, rabbitsfoot mussel, Oklahoma cave crayfish, Neosho Mucket mussel, American burying beetle, western fanshell. Plant: Geocarpon minimum, harperella.
Selling of Wildlife
Except as otherwise provided for by law, no person may buy, barter, trade, sell or offer, or expose for sale all or any part of any fish or wildlife or the nest or eggs of any bird, protected by law.
Shooting From Road
Shooting from or across any public road, highway (or right-of-way) or railroad right-of-way is prohibited. Public roadways are defined as any governmental or corporate roadways where vehicular traffic is not restricted and the roadway is routinely used by the general public.
Shotgun Pellet Size
No person in the field may possess or attempt to harvest any wildlife, except waterfowl and crane, with a shotgun using shot larger than #4 buckshot. Hogs are not considered wildlife; see Hog Regulations for shotgun provisions for hogs.
Suppressors (Silencers)
Hunters are allowed to use legally acquired and possessed suppressors to hunt game animals, game or nongame birds on both private and public lands.
Taking of Wildlife
No person, including but not limited to persons licensed for commercial hunting or wildlife breeders, may hunt, chase, capture, shoot, shoot at, wound, attempt to take or take, attempt to kill or kill, slaughter, or use any trap, net, snare, cage, pitfall, baited hook or similar device, drug, poison, narcotic, explosive or similar substance, swivel or punt gun of greater caliber than ten (10) gauge, or any device which generates electricity on an antelope, moose, whitetail or mule deer, bear, elk, mountain lion, Rocky Mountain bighorn sheep, wild turkey, or any subspecies except as otherwise provided by statute or commission rule.
Transportation of Firearms, Bows & Crossbows
Except as otherwise provided, no person may transport a loaded firearm in a land or water motor vehicle. No bow may be transported at full or partial draw in a motorized vehicle.
Muzzleloaders may be transported with a loaded powder charge and bullet as long as the gun is uncapped or battery is disconnected.
Crossbows may not be transported in a motorized vehicle unless uncocked or disassembled.
Use of Fire
No person shall concentrate, drive, molest, hunt, take, capture, kill, or attempt to take any wildlife by aid of any fire or smoke whether man-made or natural.
Wanton Waste
No person may capture, kill or destroy any wildlife protected by law and remove the head, claws, teeth, hide, antlers, horns or any or all of such parts from the carcass with the intent to abandon the carcass. No person may kill any wildlife protected by law and abandon the carcass without disposing of the carcass in the most appropriate manner. No person may dump the carcass of any dead animal in any well, spring, pond, or stream of water or leave it within 1/4 mile of any occupied dwelling or public highway without burying the carcass in an appropriate manner where it will not become exposed through erosion of the soil or where such land is subject to overflow. Penalties and fines have been increased for anyone convicted of improperly disposing of wildlife.
Hunting Regulations
GENERAL
Regulation Changes
General Hunting Regulations
Hunter Education Info
LICENSE INFO
Residency Definitions
License Requirements
License Exemptions
Specialty Licenses
License Fees
BIG GAME
Big Game Regulations
Deer
Elk
Bear
Antelope
Mountain Lion
GAME BIRDS
General Turkey Regulations
Fall Turkey
Spring Turkey
Quail (Bobwhite & Scaled)
Pheasant Regulations
MIGRATORY BIRDS
Migratory Game Bird Regulations
Dove
Crow, Woodcock, Rail, Snipe, Gallinule
Wetland Development Units
Youth, Veteran & Active Military Waterfowl Hunting Opportunities
Ducks, Mergansers & Coots
September Teal, Geese & Sandhill Cranes
Waterfowl Hunting Blinds
Extended Falconry Seasons
SMALL GAME/FURBEARER
Small Game
Hog (Feral Swine)
Furbearer/Coyote
Reptile & Amphibian
Public Hunting Areas
OLAP Regulations (Hunting)
Department-Managed Area Rules
Public Hunting Areas: Special Regulations
This guide is not a legal document. This guide is an interpretive summary of Title 29 and Title 800 Oklahoma statutes governing fish and wildlife laws as established by the Oklahoma Wildlife Conservation Commission and contains those rules that affect the average hunter or angler. For a complete listing of official regulations, you can obtain copies of current Oklahoma statutes through your local library or online resouces.
Regulation questions?
Contact Us
Recent Journals
Summer Adaptations: Wildlife Are Feeling Hot, Hot, Hot
On top of their everyday survival challenges, Oklahoma’s wildlife are often subjected to grueling hot temperatures and drought conditions. We share our favorite summer adaptations that dragonflies, birds, lizards, snakes, and even squirrels use to deal with scorching conditions.
Aug 20, 2026
Red River Carp Stakeout
Invasive carp, including silver or “jumping” carp, have become an ecological horror story in the United States, consuming river-loads of plankton and other foods and, in some states, outcompeting native fish communities. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is monitoring the Red River downstream of Denison Dam to learn more about adult invasive carp movements and conducting early detection sampling for carp larvae. So far, larval invasive carp have not been documented in this river system.
Aug 20, 2026
Hunter Education: A Key Step to Hunting in Oklahoma
Now is the time to sign up for a free Hunter Education clinic from the Oklahoma Department of Wildlife conservation, and there's sure to be one near you soon.
Aug 19, 2026
Donate today to help support Oklahoma's wildlife.
Quick Links
Careers & Internships
Outdoor Oklahoma
Wildlife Conservation Foundation
Oklahoma Wildlife
The Commission
Legislative Tracker
Submit Outdoor Calendar Events
Hunting & Fishing
Hunting Seasons
Online Hunter Education
Harvest Reports
Fishing Reports
Surveys & Reports
Cervidae (Deer, Elk, Moose, etc.) Import
Hot Topics
Active Prescribed Burns
ODWC Bids & Solicitations
Ag/Hay/Grazing Leases
Accountability Initiative
Wildlife Encounters
Oklahoma Habitat Enhancement Partnership
Opportunity For Public Input
GoOutdoorsOK
Purchase License
(opens in a new tab)
Outdoor Store
(opens in a new tab)
Outdoor Calendar
(opens in a new tab)
Mobile App
Android
(opens in a new tab)
iOS
(opens in a new tab)
Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation on Facebook (opens in a new tab)
Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation on X (opens in a new tab)
Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation on TikTok (opens in a new tab)
Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation on YouTube (opens in a new tab)
Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation on Instagram (opens in a new tab)
Footer menu
Contact Us
FAQs
Disclaimer
Civil Rights Statement
Social Media Policy
Website Accessibility Statement
Copyright ©2026 Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation. All Rights Reserved.